therefore you shall love the Lord your
God and keep his charge his statutes his
judgments and his Commandments
always
know today that I do not speak with your
children who have not known and who have
not seen the chastening of the Lord your
God his greatness and his mighty hand
and his outstretched arm his signs and
his acts which he did in the midst of
Egypt to Pharaoh king of Egypt and to
all his land what he did to the army of
Egypt to their horses and their chariots
how he made the waters of the Red Sea
overflow them as they pursued you and
how the Lord has destroyed them to this
day what he did for you in the
wilderness until you came to this place
and what he did to Dathan and abiram
sons of Eliab the son of reuben and the
earth opened its mouth and swallowed
them up their households their tents and
all the substance that was in their
possession in the midst of all Israel
but your eyes have seen every great act
of the Lord which he did therefore you
shall keep every commandment which I
command you today
that you may be strong and go in and
possess the land which you cross over to
possess and that you may prolong your
days in the land which the Lord swore to
give your father's to them and their
descendants land flowing with milk and
honey for the land which you go to
possess is not like the land of Egypt
from which you have come where you sowed
your seed and watered it by foot as a
vegetable garden but the land which you
cross over to possess is a land of hills
and valleys which drinks water from the
rain of heaven or a land for which the
Lord your God cares the eyes of the Lord
your God are always on it
from the beginning of the year to the
very end of the year and it shall be
that if you earnestly obey my
Commandments which I command you today
to love the Lord your God and serve Him
with all your heart and with all your
soul then I will give you the rain for
your land in its season the early rain
and the latter rain that you may gather
in your grain your new wine and your oil
and I will send grass any more fields
for your livestock that you may eat and
be filled take heed to yourselves lest
your heart be deceived and you turn
aside and serve other gods and worship
them this the Lord's anger be aroused
against you and he shut up the heavens
so that there be no rain and the land
yield no produce and you perish quickly
from the good land which the Lord is
giving you
therefore you shall lay up these words
of mine in your heart and in your soul
and bind them as a sign on your hand and
they shall be as frontlets between your
eyes you shall teach them to your
children speaking of them when you sit
in your house when you walk by the way
when you lie down and when you rise up
and you shall write them on the
doorposts of your house and on your
gates that your days and the days of
your children may be multiplied in the
land of which the Lord swore to your
father's to give them like the days of
the heavens above the earth for if you
carefully keep all these commandments
which I command you to do to love the
Lord your God
to walk in all his ways and to hold fast
to him
then the Lord will drive out all these
nations from before you and you will
dispose this greater and mightier
nations than yourselves every place on
which the sole of your foot treads shall
be yours from the wilderness and Lebanon
from the river the river Euphrates even
to the western sea shall be your
territory no man shall be able to stand
against you the Lord your God will put
the dread of you and the fear of you
upon all the land where you tread just
as he has said to you behold I set
before you today a blessing and a curse
the blessing if you obey the
commandments of the Lord your God which
I command you today and the curse if you
do not obey the commandments of the Lord
your God but turn aside from the way
which I command you today to go after
other gods which you have not known now
it shall be when the Lord your God has
brought you into the land which you go
to possess that you shall put the
blessing on Mount Gerizim and the curse
amount evil are they not on the other
side of the Jordan toward the Setting
Sun in the land of the Canaanites who
dwelled in the plain opposite Gilgal
beside the terebinth trees of Moria
for you will cross over the Jordan and
go into possess the land which the Lord
your God is giving you and you will
possess it and dwell only in it and you
shall be careful to observe all the
statutes and judgments which I set
before you today